---
title: "Romain F. Laine"
authorname: "Laine"
collection: team
header:
  teaser: RL.jpg
tags: alumni
tagline: "Postdoc<br>Alumni"
subject: "Study of viral infection and development of optical super-resolution microscopy"
date-start: 2017-12-01
date-end: 2020-09-01
email: 'r.laine@ucl.ac.uk'
twitter: LaineBioImaging
googlescholar: "https://scholar.google.co.uk/citations?hl=en&user=eNRcCNEAAAAJ"
orcid: "https://orcid.org/0000-0002-2151-4487"
collaborators: "Christophe Leterrier, Bassam Hajj, Mark Marsh, Loïc Royer, Joe Grove, Garcia, Jacquemet"
theme: "host-pathogen, microbiology, structural biology, new methods, software, hardware"
---

<p> <b>Overview:</b>
I am interested in developing and applying advanced microscopy techniques to decipher functional and structural organisation of life at multiple scales. For this, I develop analytical and optical tools. You can find me on Twitter (@LaineBioImaging), in the optics lab tinkering with microscopes or on my computer developing image analyses. </p>

<p> <b>Background and how I ended up coming to the LMCB? </b>
French but I have been living in the UK for long enough to have forgotten how real buttery pastries taste like. I did my PhD at Imperial College in biophotonics (throwing lasers and microscopes at cells and molecules !), then moved to Cambridge for PostDoc to develop super-resolution microscopy (throwing more lasers and more microscopes at cells and molecules !). I now joined Ricardo’s lab and I want to exploit my microscopy skills to study more complex biological systems with my microscopy skills (throwing some cells at my microscope!).</p>

<p> <b>Reason(s) that made me get into science?</b>

The idea (and ideal) of discovery!</p>

<p><b>Where do I see myself in 5 years?</b>

Head of my own lab, working on fast 3D microscopy to understand viral replication at cellular and sub-cellular levels.</p>

<p><b>Any hobbies?</b>

Capoeira and cooking ! (a well-balanced system of input and output of calories). </p>

{% include author-research-themes.html %}
{% include author-research-resources.html %}
{% include team-member-collaborators.html %}
{% include publication-list.html %}
