---
title: "Christoph Spahn"
authorname: "Spahn"
collection: team
header:
  teaser: CS.jpg
tags: alumni
tagline: "Postdoc<br>EMBO Short-Term Fellow<br>Alumni"
subject: "Application of multi-color super-resolution microscopy to bacterial cells to
investigate essential cellular processes on the nanoscale."
date-start: 2020-02-01
date-end: 2020-12-01
twitter: "miCHRIScopy"
email: 'c.spahn@chemie.uni-frankfurt.de'
googlescholar: "https://scholar.google.com/citations?user=HxqOowgAAAAJ&hl=en"
orcid: "https://orcid.org/0000-0001-9886-2263"
theme: "microbiology, methods"
collaborators: "Pinho, Heilemann"
---
<p align= "justify">
<b>My past:</b> I studied biology in the beautiful and romantic city Würzburg in Germany. Afterwards, I moved to Frankfurt to do my PhD in Mike Heilemann research group, investigating nucleoid architecture in E. coli cells using single-molecule localization microscopy (SMLM), a super-resolution approach that provides near molecular resolution. After figuring out how to directly label the nucleoid and how to combine different super-resolution methods (which took some time), my work resulted in several imaging approaches that allow for three-color SMLM in individual cells at spatial resolutions of ~ 20 – 40 nm. This is exactly what we require to explore the inner life of bugs at the nanoscale and understand how different processes and stimuli affect bacterial homeostasis and nucleoid organization.
<br>
<b>My present:</b> With the developed toolbox, I investigate how E. coli cells replicate and segregate their chromosome and how biological processes such as transcription and translation shape the nucleoid in a dynamic manner. As most of my work was performed in fixed specimen, I am very happy to join the Henriques group as an EMBO short term fellow, to perform live-cell imaging and ultimately provide a dynamic, super-resolved picture of bacterial chromosome replication.
<br>
<b>My future:</b> I want to use super-resolution microscopy to gain a deep understanding of how antimicrobial compounds perturb microbial cell homeostasis. This knowledge will become extremely important for fighting antimicrobial resistance and designing new drugs.

{% include author-research-themes.html %}
{% include author-research-resources.html %}
{% include team-member-collaborators.html %}
{% include publication-list.html %}
